>> Kyle Simpson: Let's go back
to our example of count valves,
you remember this implementation
from earlier in our discussion, and
let's analyze that this is not
improper tail call position.
How do we know it's not improper to call
position, because there is an addition
operation that has to happen
after the countVowels has run.
So we know that those stack frames are
gonna be kept around, and the question is,
that was the way we designed or
solved this problem recursively, and
it led to a non-tail call representation
of the problem solution, so what do we do?
Because in theory it sounds
great from recursion, but
in practice now, we have this problem
where it can't ever be optimized,
even if they ever implement
proper tail calls.
And the good news is that many
forms of recursion, not all, but
many forms of recursion can be reoriented
to take advantage of tail calls,
but it requires thinking a little bit
more carefully about the problem.
So this is a technique that you should be
aware of, because if you are ever going to
use recursion practically anywhere,
even in Safari only, you're
gonna have to get comfortable with the
idea, thinking about proper tail calls.
Because it won't always be the case that
your recursion nicely, cleanly is already
in tail call position, you're gonna
have to probably put in that extra work.
And sometimes you're gonna be stuck where
no matter what you do you're not going to
be able to do tail calls.
There is a form of recursion called binary
recursion, which is that you, and this is
what you see when you're traversing
binary trees, for example, where you call
left and then you call right, and
each one of those goes left and right.
When you have a forked or a binary,
or even more, any sort of recursion,
you absolutely can't do tail calls,
cuz one of those is not gonna
be on the tail position.
One of them might, but
one of them isn't, and so
you're just stuck there is no way to solve
that problem, you can't do two forms
of recursion in the same function and have
both of them be in tail call position.
But most recursion that we do,
that isn't of that form,
at least is possible to consider
rewriting it into tail call form.
So what we need to do is,
analyze how do we get rid of that,
essentially how could we get rid of that
first variable, cuz that's the reason
that it's not in tail call form, that's
the reason why we need to preserve it.
It's because that pesky thing that's
stuck there, it's hanging out there while
the other function calls are finishing,
and then we're coming back to it.
So the key recognition point
that is often gonna lead you to
being able to refactor something that's
non-tail call into a tail call form,
that key recognition point is to say,
if I am keeping track of this
information in the stack frame, that is,
my local variables in the stack.
Where else could I keep track
of that information and
not keep track of it in the stack frame?
And there's only one other
place that even makes sense.
The other place that I could keep track of
it in, is in the next stack frame, AKA,
the arguments that I'm gonna
pass to the next function.
So instead of preserving a variable here,
if I were to compute my response and
pass it forward to the next function,
then I have a place for that to sit.
Instead of keeping my stack frame,
finish all of my business, and
pass it all on to the next stack frame,
and he finishes all of his business, and
he passes it on to the next stack frame,
and so on.
That's how you refactor from
non-tail call to tail call form.
So what that looks like then is
that we are going to want to
reserve one of the argument positions for
our running count.
We could start that
argument position out at 0,
and then we just, each time we make
the recursive call, make sure that
that number has been incremented
properly to hold that new value.
So this is what it might look like,
we could call count values with the count
argument and started it out at 0.
We could precompute count,
like we were computing first before, but
notice I'm doing a plus equals here, so
I am adding two count rather
than recomputing only first.
I'm basically making count bigger and
bigger, and bigger every time it's called,
and then we are forward passing.
And you see on line 6 we pass in the new
count to the next level of recursive.
Now, the problem with this is that it
makes the signature of our recursive
function more awkward.
When it's a single number,
like starting it out at 0,
it's not a huge problem to tell
people you have to pass 0, but
it is a sort of leaky abstraction,
wait, why do I have to pass 0?
Shouldn't you be taking care of that?
So it's kind of leaking the abstraction
that we're doing a recursion,
that we're doing a tail
call recursion here.
So what you often will see, is that
someone will create an interface function
that has a nice, clean looking signature,
and then they'll have the recursive
function hidden away,
that has the non clean signature.
That's kinda the trade off here.
So what you might see
is something like this.
You might see a countVowels that we're
gonna store it in some place and
here's what I'm gonna do,
I'm gonna store it in a Curry.
I'm gonna create a countVowels
that takes both of those inputs
separately, and then I'm gonna prespecify
one of those inputs down on line 7.
That's a fancy way of showing you,
that's a functional way of
showing you that I'm gonna store
it in a closure somewhere.
I'm gonna store that information in
a closure so that the call sight that
everybody else sees is the one that's
only providing the second value.
This is yet another example of
using Curry to our advantage.
When we have some information
that we need to store somewhere,
Curry takes advantage of, or allows us to
store that information in that closure.
So this is a common way that you
might take a function written,
like the one on line 3, you see I've
written it in the sort of naive sense, but
then I've presented to the outside program
one that has a cleaner information
signature, where I only need
the to pass in the string.
So, now this countVowels function would
in fact run, we can see the call-site on
line 6, that is the recursive call-site,
and we can see that it does in fact work
as a proper tail code, it is in proper
tail call form, we have strict mode.
So if we were to take this code and try to
run it inside of something like Safari and
give it a really, really giant string
that was millions of characters long,
it would happily run through all of
those characters and give us a response.
It would probably run a little bit
slower than the for loop version,
cuz we'd have a million
function calls instead of one.
And there is some amount
of runtime overhead, but
we would at least not have
a runaway memory situation.